LocalDateTime documentation (#922)
tc39/proposal-temporal: docs/localdatetime.md

The `overflow` option works as follows:

- In `'constrain'` mode (the default), any out-of-range values are clamped to the nearest in-range value.
- In `'reject'` mode, the presence of out-of-range values will cause the function to throw a `RangeError`.

Additionally, if the result is earlier or later than the range of dates that `Temporal.DateTime` can represent (approximately half a million years centered on the [Unix epoch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time)), then this method will throw a `RangeError` regardless of `overflow`.

> **NOTE**: Although Temporal does not deal with leap seconds, dates coming from other software may have a `second` value of 60.
> In the default `'constrain'` mode and when parsing an ISO 8601 string, this will be converted to 59.
> In `'reject'` mode, this function will throw, so if you have to interoperate with times that may contain leap seconds, don't use `reject`.

If the input contains a time zone offset, in rare cases it's possible for those values to conflict for a particular local date and time.

> For example, this could happen for future summertime events that were stored before a country permanently abolished DST.

Author: This wording was intentional. DST (and Summer!) in the Southern Hemisphere is November-March. Still think we need a change here?

> For example, this could happen for future summertime events that were stored before a country permanently abolished DST.

Reviewer: It's quite minor and I don't feel strongly about it, so up to you. But in general I think more generalized wording is better if it doesn't compromise clarity.

# Temporal.LocalDateTime

<details>
  <summary><strong>Table of Contents</strong></summary>
<!-- toc -->
</details>

> **NOTE**: This type has been approved and will be merged soon (probably early October 2020), but it's not in current builds yet.
> Also, "LocalDateTime" is a placeholder name. Its final name is being discussed [here](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/issues/707).
> If you have feedback about this new type, visit https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/issues/700.

A `Temporal.LocalDateTime` is a time-zone-aware, calendar-aware date/time type that represents a real event that has happened (or will happen) at a particular instant in a real place on Earth.

> As the most comprehensive `Temporal` type, `Temporal.LocalDateTime` can be considered a combination of `Temporal.TimeZone`, `Temporal.Absolute`, and `Temporal.DateTime` (which includes `Temporal.Calendar`).

Author: "The most information" seems kind of vague-- I think the connotation we want is expansive or thorough, not just "more" or "most". Got any other idea for how to describe it?  "The most complete"?  Something else?

> As the most comprehensive `Temporal` type, `Temporal.LocalDateTime` can be considered a combination of `Temporal.TimeZone`, `Temporal.Absolute`, and `Temporal.DateTime` (which includes `Temporal.Calendar`).

Reviewer: Comprehensive is not bad in that sense, the reason I suggested using another word is to avoid the connotation of "you should always use LocalDateTime for everything." Maybe "most specific"?

> As the most comprehensive `Temporal` type, `Temporal.LocalDateTime` can be considered a combination of `Temporal.TimeZone`, `Temporal.Absolute`, and `Temporal.DateTime` (which includes `Temporal.Calendar`).

Author: I'm not a fan of "most specific" because if you're thinking that "specific" refers to use cases, then a type like MonthDay is "most specific" because it targets narrower use cases. But if you're thinking "specific" means data, then LDT is the most specific. I think we should pick a different term to avoid this potential ambiguity.

I changed to "broadest" which seems to be the least judgmental word I could find for the concept. I'm happy to pick another term but if OK with you I'll resolve this now so we can get the docs in and we can iterate. Sound OK?

```

## Static methods

### Temporal.LocalDateTime.**from**(_thing_: any, _options_?: object) : Temporal.LocalDateTime

**Parameters:**

- `thing`: The value representing the desired date, time, time zone, and calendar.
- `options` (optional object): An object with properties representing options for constructing this instance.
  The following options are recognized:
  - `overflow` (string): How to deal with out-of-range values in `thing`.
    Allowed values are `constrain` and `reject`.
    The default is `constrain`.
  - `disambiguation` (string): How to disambiguate if the date and time given by `localDateTime` does not exist in the time zone, or exists more than once.
    Allowed values are `'compatible'`, `'earlier'`, `'later'`, and `'reject'`.
    The default is `'compatible'`.
  - `offset` (string): How to interpret a provided time zone offset (e.g. `-02:00`) if it conflicts with the provided time zone e.g. `America/Sao_Paulo`.
    Allowed values are `'use'`, `'ignore'`, `'prefer'`, and `'reject'`.
    The default is `'reject'`.

**Returns:** a new `Temporal.LocalDateTime` object.

This static method creates a new `Temporal.LocalDateTime` object from another value.

> If the value is another `Temporal.LocalDateTime` object, a new object representing the same date and time is returned.

Author: how about "with equivalent fields" ?

> If the value is another `Temporal.LocalDateTime` object, a new object representing the same date and time is returned.

Reviewer: Sure, or "new but otherwise identical"?

> If the value is another `Temporal.LocalDateTime` object, a new object representing the same date and time is returned.

Author: I like your suggested text and will use it.

If the value is any other object, a `Temporal.LocalDateTime` will be constructed from the values of any `timeZone`, `timeZoneOffsetNanoseconds`, `era`, `year`, `month`, `day`, `hour`, `minute`, `second`, `millisecond`, `microsecond`, `nanosecond`, and/or `calendar` properties that are present.
At least the `timeZone`, `year`, `month`, and `day` properties must be present. Other properties are optional.
If `calendar` is missing, it will be assumed to be `Temporal.Calendar.from('iso8601')`.
Any other missing properties will be assumed to be 0 (for time fields).

All date/time values will be interpreted in context of the provided time zone.
Also, if `calendar` is present then all date/time values will also be interpreted in context of that calendar.

Any non-object value is converted to a string, which is expected to be in an extension of ISO 8601 that includes a required time zone and optional calendar. For example:

```
2020-08-05T20:06:13+0900[Asia/Tokyo][c=japanese]
```

If the string isn't valid, then a `RangeError` will be thrown regardless of the value of `overflow`.

> Note that although this string format is not currently standardized by ISO 8601, it matches the format used by `java.time` and some other time-zone-aware libraries.

Author: Given the volume of feedback we've already received about developers concerned that we are diverging from the standard, I think it might be worth a sentence in the main docs, because many developers might not make it over to the extensions page.   But I agree we could make this smoother. If we did want to have some text here, along the lines of "We know it's not standardized yet but JS uses it and Java uses it and we're even working on making it a published standard, so don't be freaked out about this", what do you think would be a good way to finesse it?

> Note that although this string format is not currently standardized by ISO 8601, it matches the format used by `java.time` and some other time-zone-aware libraries.

Reviewer: Maybe link explicitly to the ISO extensions page? Something like "For more information on Temporal's extensions to the ISO string format and the process of becoming a published standard, see 'ISO standard extensions'"

> Note that although this string format is not currently standardized by ISO 8601, it matches the format used by `java.time` and some other time-zone-aware libraries.

Author: That's a great solution. I'll use your text slightly modified: 

> For more information on `Temporal`'s extensions to the ISO string format and the progress towards becoming a published standard, see [ISO standard extensions](./iso-string-ext.md).

This string format is also planned to be standardized in the future to ensure interoperability between time-zone-aware applications.

The time zone suffix is always required. `2020-08-05T20:06:13+09:00` and `2020-08-05T11:06:13Z` are not valid inputs to this method. To parse these string formats, use `Temporal.Absolute`:

```javascript
Temporal.Absolute.from('2020-08-05T20:06:13+0900').toLocalDateTime('Asia/Tokyo', 'iso8601');
```

Although usually you'll want to use a named IANA time zone like `Europe/Paris` or `America/Los_Angeles`, there are some cases where adjusting for DST or other time zone offset changes is not needed. For these cases, you can opt in to using a non-DST-adjusting offset time zone by specifying that the time zone is the same as the offset:

```javascript

> Temporal.Absolute.from('2020-08-05T20:06:13+09:00[+09:00]');

Author: Sounds good. Here's new content I'll check in: 

> Although usually you'll want to use a named IANA time zone like `Europe/Paris` or `America/Los_Angeles`, there are some cases where adjusting for DST or other time zone offset changes is not desired.
For these cases, non-DST-adjusting, single-offset time zones are available, e.g. `Etc/GMT-14` through `Etc/GMT+12`.
For historical reasons, signs are reversed between these time zones' names and their offsets. For example, `Etc/GMT-8` would be appropriate for ocean shipping off the coast of California where the UTC offset is -08:00.
If a non-whole-hour single-offset time zone is needed, the offset can be used as the time zone name of an offset time zone.

> Temporal.Absolute.from('2020-08-05T20:06:13+09:00[+09:00]');

Reviewer 2: > For historical reasons, signs are reversed between these time zones' names and their offsets. For example, `Etc/GMT-8` would be appropriate for ocean shipping off the coast of California where the UTC offset is -08:00.

@justingrant Your example contradicts the previous sentence. The zone should be `Etc/GMT+8` for the Californian coast. :)

> Temporal.Absolute.from('2020-08-05T20:06:13+09:00[+09:00]');

Author: Oops!  Fixed in latest version.

For example, this could happen for future summertime events that were stored before a country permanently abolished DST.
If the time zone and offset are in conflict, then the `offset` option is used to resolve the conflict:

- `'use'`: Evaluate date/time values using the time zone offset if it's provided in the input.
  This will keep the absolute time unchanged even if local time will be different than what was originally stored.
- `'ignore'`: Never use the time zone offset provided in the input. Instead, calculate the offset from the time zone.
  This will keep local time unchanged but may result in a different absolute time than was originally stored.
- `'prefer'`: Evaluate date/time values using the offset if it's valid for this time zone.
  If the offset is invalid, then calculate the offset from the time zone.
  This option is rarely used when calling `from()`.
  See the documentation of `with()` for more details about why this option is used.
- `'reject'`: Throw a `RangeError` if the offset is not valid for the provided date and time in the provided time zone.

> The primary reason to use the `offset` option is when parsing values which were saved before a change to that time zone's time zone definition.

Author: OK I'll take a look at that page and see where this could fit.

> The primary reason to use the `offset` option is when parsing values which were saved before a change to that time zone's time zone definition.

Author: Do you mean moving the `disambiguation`-related content, the `offset`-related content, or both?

I ask because `offset` is only relevant to LDT (because no other type parses values with both offset and IANA zone), while `disambiguation` applies to many other types.

BTW, today I revamped the ambiguity page and will check it in soon. I updated the disambiguation samples on that page to include LDT and made it into more of an "About Time Zones and Temporal" page to include some generalized content that might be useful for newbies to this space. Will check in once I figure out if `offset` content should go there or not.

> The primary reason to use the `offset` option is when parsing values which were saved before a change to that time zone's time zone definition.

Reviewer: I meant moving the `offset` section, lines 138 through 170, I think it fits thematically on the ambiguity page, even though it only applies to LocalDateTime. I think it could go in its own section on that page. My comment was because I think the section goes into too much detail for reference documentation and makes it hard to scan (which is, to be fair, a problem with some of the other docs I wrote as well) but I did think it was important enough that it shouldn't just be deleted.

Can you check in the ambiguity page as a separate PR so that this one doesn't have to block on it?

> The primary reason to use the `offset` option is when parsing values which were saved before a change to that time zone's time zone definition.

Author: > I meant moving the offset section, lines 138 through 170,
OK I'll take a look. 

> I think it fits thematically on the ambiguity page, even though it only applies to LocalDateTime. I think it could go in its own section on that page.

Good, because I already did this. ;-) This is already done and checked in-- it's the bottom two sections in the revised ambiguity page in this PR. 

> Can you check in the ambiguity page as a separate PR so that this one doesn't have to block on it?
I actually finished the updated ambiguity page already-- it's already checked into this PR and I don't anticipate any more updates to it. Do you want me to pull it out of this PR? I was hoping to leave it in because the LDT content will point to a new section in the ambiguity page.

> The primary reason to use the `offset` option is when parsing values which were saved before a change to that time zone's time zone definition.

Author: OK, removed  about 65 LOC from the `from` docs, mostly `offset` drilldown content/samples and `disambiguation` samples.  The remaining `offset` content now points readers to the new section in the ambiguity page for `offset` drilldown details.

ldt = Temporal.LocalDateTime.from(savedUsingOldTzRules, { offset: 'prefer' });
// => 2020-01-15T12:00-03:00[America/Sao_Paulo]
// Saved offset is invalid for current time zone rules, so use time zone to to calculate offset.
```

The `offset` option is ignored if an offset is not present in the input. In that case, the time zone is used to evaluate date/time values.

The `disambiguation` option controls what time zone offset is used when the input time is ambiguous (as in the repeated clock hour after DST ends) or invalid due to offset changes skipping clock time (as in the skipped clock hour after DST starts):

- `'compatible'` (the default): Acts like `'earlier'` for backward transitions and `'later'` for forward transitions.
- `'earlier'`: The earlier of two possible times.
- `'later'`: The later of two possible times.
- `'reject'`: Throw a `RangeError` instead.

When interoperating with existing code or services, `'compatible'` mode matches the behavior of legacy `Date` as well as libraries like moment.js, Luxon, and date-fns.
This mode also matches the behavior of cross-platform standards like [RFC 5545 (iCalendar)](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5545).

> During "skipped" clock time like the hour after DST starts in the Spring, this method interprets invalid times using the pre-transition time zone offset if `'compatible'` or `'later'` is used or the post-transition time zone offset if `'earlier'` is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During "skipped" clock time like the hour after DST starts, this method interprets invalid times using the pre-transition time zone offset if `'compatible'` or `'later'` is used or the post-transition time zone offset if `'earlier'` is used.
```

This behavior avoids exceptions when converting non-existent local time values to `Temporal.LocalDateTime`.

For usage examples and a more complete explanation of how this disambiguation works and why it is necessary, see [Resolving ambiguity](./ambiguity.md).

The `disambiguation` option is only used if there is no offset in the input, or if the offset is ignored by using the `offset` option as described above.
If the offset in the input is used, then there is no ambiguity and the `disambiguation` option is ignored.

> **NOTE**: The allowed values for the `thing.month` property start at 1, which is different from legacy `Date` where months are represented by zero-based indices (0 to 11).

> Example usage:

Reviewer: I'd try to condense these examples a bit. They should be enough to illustrate what the method does but don't need to be exhaustive. I might suggest removing the Japanese calendar one. Some of them could be moved into `ambiguity.md` as well.

Author: I removed the japanese calendar example and removed all the disambiguation examples. New examples section is much slimmer.

```javascript
ldt = Temporal.LocalDateTime.from('1995-12-07T03:24:30+02:00[Africa/Cairo]');

> ldt = Temporal.LocalDateTime.from('1995-12-07T03:24:30+02:00[Africa/Cairo][c=hijri]');

Reviewer: `islamic` is the Unicode identifier, Hijri is one of the names it's called.

Author: fixed

> ldt = Temporal.LocalDateTime.from('1995-12-07T03:24:30');  // RangeError; time zone suffix required
> ldt = Temporal.LocalDateTime.from('1995-12-07T01:24:30Z');  // RangeError; time zone suffix required
> ldt = Temporal.LocalDateTime.from('1995-12-07T03:24:30+02:00');  // RangeError; time zone suffix required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ldt = Temporal.LocalDateTime.from('1995-12-07T03:24:30');  // RangeError; time zone name required
ldt = Temporal.LocalDateTime.from('1995-12-07T01:24:30Z');  // RangeError; time zone name required
ldt = Temporal.LocalDateTime.from('1995-12-07T03:24:30+02:00');  // RangeError; time zone name required
```

ldt = Temporal.LocalDateTime.from(props, { disambiguation: 'compatible' })
  // => 2020-03-08T03:30-07:00[America/Los_Angeles]
ldt = Temporal.LocalDateTime.from(props)
  // => 2020-03-08T03:30-07:00[America/Los_Angeles] ('compatible' is the default)
earlier = Temporal.LocalDateTime.from(props, { disambiguation: 'earlier' })
  // => 2020-03-08T01:30-08:00[America/Los_Angeles] (1:30 clock time; still in Standard Time)
later = Temporal.LocalDateTime.from(props, { disambiguation: 'later' })
  // => 2020-03-08T03:30-07:00[America/Los_Angeles] ('later' is same as 'compatible' for backwards transitions)
later.toDateTime().difference(earlier.toDateTime())
  // => PT2H  (2 hour difference in clock time...
later.difference(earlier)
  // => PT1H   ... but 1 hour later in real-world time)
```

### Temporal.LocalDateTime.**compare**(_one_: Temporal.LocalDateTime, _two_: Temporal.LocalDateTime) : number

**Parameters:**

- `one` (`Temporal.LocalDateTime`): First value to compare.
- `two` (`Temporal.LocalDateTime`): Second value to compare.

**Returns:** an integer indicating whether `one` comes before or after or is equal to `two`.

> - Zero if all fields are equivalent, including the calendar ID and the time zone name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Zero if all fields are equal, including the calendar ID and the time zone name.
```

- &minus;1 if `one` is less than `two`
- 1 if `one` is greater than `two`.

> Comparison will use absolute time, not clock time, because sorting is almost always based on when events happened in the real world, but during the hour before and after DST ends in the fall, sorting of clock time will not match the real-world time sort order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Comparison will use absolute time, not clock time, because sorting is almost always based on when events happened in the real world, but during the hour before and after DST ends, sorting of clock time will not match the order the events actually occurred.
```

> If absolute timestamps are equal, then `.calendar.id` will be compared alphabetically.
> If those are equal too, then `.timeZone.name` will be compared alphabetically.
> Even though alphabetic sort carries no meaning, it's used to ensure that unequal instances have a deterministic sort order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If absolute timestamps are equal, then `.calendar.id` will be compared lexicographically, in order to ensure a deterministic sort order.
If those are equal too, then `.timeZone.name` will be compared lexicographically.
```

> This function can be used to sort arrays of `Temporal.LocalDateTime` objects.

Reviewer: Move this line up to be the first line after the "Returns" paragraph / list.

Author: good idea. moved.
